Part I Discrete Mathematics

A Fill the blanks from __1__ to __9__

1.Assume that an automatic recognizer is used to distinguish boys from a group of people which consists of 10 boys and 8 girls. There are 12 persons recognized as boys by the recognizer. However, only 9 out of these persons are actually boys, other 3 persons are girls.With these statistics, the precision and accuracy if this recognizer are __1__ and __2__ respectively.

2. In the equation of $ y1 + y2 + 5y3 = 12 $, there are 7 solutions of positive integers
(that is, y1, y2, and y3 are all positives) and __3__ non-negative integers.

3. Translate the following 2 statements using logical symbols, such as $ \forall and \exists $, propositional variables, and logical operators. THe logical expression for "There is no maximum integer" is __4__ and the logical expression of "Every integer has a unique additive inverse" is __5__.

4. the recurrence relation of the number of moves required for Hanoi tower is ak = __6__,
where a1 = 1, a2 = 3

5. Assume that there ar 1 red ball and 2 blue balls in box  1,and 2 red balls and 3 blue balls in box 2. You choose one ball randomly. If you have selected a red ball,
then the probability that you selected a ball from 1st box is  __7__.

6.The number of bit strings of length 10 having more 0s than 1s is __8__, and the number of bit strings of length 10 having at least 3 1s is __9__.

B. True or false (2 pts each for a correct answer and -1 point for a wrong answer) 

1. Incidence matrix, for graph representation, is a symmetric matrix.

2. The cardinality  of Q is the same as the cardinality of Z. (qp)",

3. Among 100  people there are at least 9 who were born in the same month. 

4. (P(S), ) is a partially ordered set, where P(S) is a power set of S={1,2,4}.

5. "-p→q" is logicallyequivalent to " (q→p)" where stands for "not"

6. There are 81 ways to put 4 distinguishable balls into 3 different boxes. 

7. Traveling salesman problem is the problem to find an Euler circuit of least cost.

Part 2 Linear Akgebra

1. Determine whether the set S is Linear independent or dependent.
(a) S = {(2,-1,4),(3,6,2),(2,10,-4)} in R^3
(b) S = {(2,1,1),(2,-1,3),(2,3,-1)} in R^3
(c) S = {0,x,X^2} in polynomial space P_2
(d) S = {3+x+x^2},2-x+5X^2,4-x^2 in polynomial space P_2
(e) S = {(1+x)^2,x^2+2x,3} in polynomial space P_2

2.Let matrix A = $ \begin{vmatrix}3,-2,0\\-2,3,0\\0,0,5\end{vmatrix} $

(a) Find A^-1
(b) Verify whether A is positive definite.
(c) Find a matrix P such that P^-1AP is diagonal.

3.Let T:R^2 -> R^3 be defined by $ T(\begin{vmatrix}x1\\x2\end{vmatrix}) = \begin{vmatrix}x1+2x2\\-x1\\0\end{vmatrix}$

(a) Find the matrix of T with respect to the bases B = {u1,u2} and B' = {v1,v2,v3}, where u1 = [1,3],u2 = [-2,4],v1 = [1,1,1],v2 = [2,2,0],v3 = [3,0,0]

(b) Use the matrix obatained in (a) to compute T([4,6]).