# 107

## PART 1. Introduction to Computer Science

### A. Multiple Choice (24%)

1. Assume there is no compilation error. If a=7.00, b=7.00, c= 6.00, then what is printed by the following C statement: printf ("%.3f", sqrt(a+b*c));
    - (a) 7.0
    - (b) 7.00
    - (c) 7
    - (d) 7.000

    ANS:

    ``` c++
    float a=7.00, b=7.00, c= 6.00;
    printf ("%.3f", sqrt(a+b*c));
    ```

    result is (d) 7.000

2. In the ___ hashing method, selected digits are extracted from the key and used as the address.
    - (a) direct
    - (b) division remainder
    - (c) modulo division
    - (d) digit extraction

    ANS: (d)
3. A Turing machine has these components:
    - (a) tape, memory, and read/write head
    - (b) disk, controller, and read/write head
    - (c) tape, controller, and read/write head
    - (d) disk, memory, and controller

    ANS: (c)
4. In ___ sort, the smallest item from the unsorted list is swapped with the item at the beginning of the unsorted list.
    - (a) bubble
    - (b) selection
    - (c) insertion
    - (d) shell

    ANS: (c)
5. If we are adding two numbers, one of which has an exponent value of 7 and the other an exponent value of 9, we need to shift the decimal point of the smaller number
    - (a) one place to the left
    - (b) one place to the right
    - (c) two places to the left
    - (d) two places to the right

    ANS: (c)
6. The ___ method of integer representation is the most common method for storing integers in computer memory.
    - (a) sign-and-magnitude
    - (b) one's complement
    - (c) two's complement
    - (d) unsigned integers

    ANS: (c)
7. A computer's hard disk, memory, and CPU can divide into multiple virtual machines, and each virtual machine will have its own hard disk, memory and CPU. What kind of technology does be used in the following?
    - (a) Parallel computing
    - (b) Multitasking
    - (c) Multicore
    - (d) Virtualization

    ANS: (c)
8. Hamming distance is greater than or equal to a group of seven numbers, how many bits can be self-correcting errors at the most?
    - (a) 4
    - (b) 3
    - (c) 2
    - (d) 1

    ANS: (b)

### B. Short Answer Questions (26%)

1. According to the following code segment of C language, please show the print results? (6 %)

    ``` c++
    #include <stdio.h>
    #include <stdlib.h>

    void bf(int *i, int *j) {
        *i=*j+4;
        *j=*j-2;
        printf("%d %d \n", *i,*j);
    }

    void af(int *a, int b) {
        *a+=4;
        b*=3;
        printf("%d %d \n", *a,b);
        bf(a, &b);
    }

    int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
        int x=6,y=9;
        af(&x,y);
        printf("%d %d \n", x,y);
        return 0;
    }
    ```

    ANS:

    10 27

    31 25

    31 9

2. A binary tree has 10 nodes. The inorder and preorder traversal of the tree are shown below. Preorder: JCBADEFIGH; Inorder: ABCEDFJGIH
Draw the tree. (6%)

    ANS:

    ``` binary tree

                    J
            C               I
        B       D       G       H
    A        E     F

    ```

3. Convert the following numbers in 32-bit IEEE format. (8%)
    - (a) -12.640625

        ANS: 1 10000010 10010100100000000000000
    - (b)- 0.375

        ANS: 1 01111101 10000000000000000000000
4. Write down the pseudo code for the quick sort. (6 %)

    ``` python
    function quickSort(arr, l, r)
        if l < r
            pivotIndex = partition(arr, l, r)
            quickSort(arr, l, pivotIndex - 1)
            quickSort(arr, pivotIndex + 1, r)

    function partition(arr, l, r)
        pivot = arr[r]
        i = l - 1
        
        for j = l to r - 1
            if arr[j] < pivot
                i = i + 1
                swap arr[i] and arr[j]
        
        swap arr[i + 1] and arr[r]
        return i + 1
    ```

## PART 2. Operating Systems

1. The process typically will be assigned to the CPU based on the given scheduling algorithm. Suppose there are four processes and theit arrival time, burst time, and priority are as shown in the following table.(8%)
    | Process | Arrival Time | Burst time | Priority  |
    |:-------:|:------------:|:----------:|:---------:|
    |   P1    |       0      |    10      |     1     |
    |   P2    |       1      |     8      |     1     |
    |   P3    |       2      |     3      |     2     |
    |   P4    |       3      |     6      |     3     |

    - (a) What is the execution order and average time of these processes when using first-come, first-served (FCFS) scheduling algoritbm?

        Execution order: P1, P2, P3, P4

        $Average time: (10 + 8 + 3 + 6) / 4 = 7$

    - (b) What is the cxecution order and average time of these processes when using shortest-job-first (SJF) scheduling algorithm?

        Execution order: P3, P4, P1, P2

        $Average time: (3 + 6 + 10 + 8) / 4 = 7$

    - (c) What is the cxecution order and average time of these processes when using priority-scheduling algorithm?

        Execution order: P1, P2, P3, P4

        $Average time: (10 + 8 + 3 + 6) / 4 = 7$

    - (d) What is the execution order and average time of these processes when using round-robin (RR) algorithm? Note that each proces will have a fixed time to execute in RR called a quantum which is set equal to 5 here.

        Execution order: P1 (5 time slices), P2 (3 time slices), P3 (1 time slice), P4 (2 time slices), P1 (1 time slice), P2 (2 time slices), P3 (1 time slice), P4 (1 time slice)

        $Average time: (5 * 5 + 3 * 5 + 1 * 5 + 2 * 5 + 1 * 5 + 2 * 5 + 1 * 5 + 1 * 5) / 8 = 35 / 8 = 4.375$

2. Given the following snapshot of the system:

    $\begin{array}{cc}
    ~   & Allocation & Max & Available\\
    ~   & A B C D & A B C D & A B C D \\
    P_0 & 0 1 1 2 & 0 1 1 3 & 1 4 2 3 \\
    P_1 & 1 0 0 1 & 1 5 5 5 &    .    \\
    P_2 & 1 5 4 3 & 2 7 4 3 &    .    \\
    P_3 & 0 5 5 2 & 0 5 5 3 &    .    \\
    \end{array}$

    - (a) Please show the content of the matrix Need? (4%)
        ANS:

        $\begin{array}{cccc}
        ~ & \text{Need}_A & \text{Need}_B & \text{Need}_C & \text{Need}_D \\
        P_0 & 0-0 & 1-1 & 1-1 & 3-2 \\
        P_1 & 1-1 & 5-0 & 5-0 & 5-1 \\
        P_2 & 2-1 & 7-5 & 4-4 & 3-3 \\
        P_3 & 0-0 & 5-5 & 5-5 & 3-2 \\
        \end{array}$

        $\begin{array}{cccc}
        ~ & \text{Need}_A & \text{Need}_B & \text{Need}_C & \text{Need}_D \\
        P_0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\
        P_1 & 0 & 5 & 5 & 4 \\
        P_2 & 1 & 2 & 0 & 0 \\
        P_3 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 \\
        \end{array}$
    - (b) Is this system in a safe state? If yes, please show the details; otherwise, please explain why. (5%)

    ANS:

    Use Banker's algorithm.

    Initially, the Available resources are \(1, 4, 2, 3\).

    - Try to allocate resources to a process such that its resource needs are satisfied and update the Available resources.

    $ P_0: \text{Available} = \text{Available} - \text{Need}_{P_0} = (1, 4, 2, 3) - (0, 0, 0, 1) = (1, 4, 2, 2) $

    - Repeat the process for the next processes:

    $ P_1: \text{Available} = (1, 4, 2, 2) - (0, 5, 5, 4) = (1, -1, -3, -2) $

    Since one of the elements in the Available vector is negative after considering process $P_1$, the system is not in a safe state. Therefore, the system is not in a safe state.

3. Given a two-dimensional array A declared as follows: (8%) $int A[100][100];$ where each integer occupies four bytes and $A[0][10]$ is at location 1,600 in a paged memory system with page of size 1,600. A small process for manipulating the matrix resides in page 0 (location 0 to 1599); thus, every instruction fetch will be from page O. For three page frames, how many page faults are generated by the following array initialization loops, using LRU replacement and assuming that page frame 1 has the process in it, the other two are initially empty, and the array is stored in memory row by row?
    - (a)

    ``` c++
        for(int i=0;i<100;i++)
            for (int j = 0; j < 100; jt+)
                A[i][j] = 0;
    ```

    ANS:

    Page size: 1600 bytes, A row : 100 int(4 bytes) = 400 bytes,

    thus 100 - 3 = 97

    - (b)

    ``` c++
        for (int j=0;j<100;jt+)
            for (int i = 0; i <100; i++)
                A[i][j] = 0;
    ```

    ANS:

    Page size: 1600 bytes, A row : 100 int(4 bytes) = 400 bytes,

    thus 100 - 3 = 97

    一樣?

## PART 3. Computer Organizations

1. True or False (10%)
    - (a) The cost of carry lookahead adder (CLA) is always higher than that of ripple carry (RCA).
    - (b) The pipelining is a key factor that makes the memory hierarchy work well.
    - (c) The potential amount of instruction-level parallelism (ILP) can be increased by the use of static multiple issue.
    - (d) For a disk, the mean time to failure (MTTF) is a reliability measure. We can use the fault forecasting to improve MTTF.
    - (e) The use of branch target buffer (BTB) woud increase the accuracy of branch prediction.

    ANS: T T T F T
2. Answer the following questions briefly (15%)
    - (a) What's the innediate addressing mode?

        In immediate addressing mode, the operand is directly specified in the instruction itself. This means that the operand is not a memory address and does not need to be fetched from memory. This can make immediate addressing mode more efficient than other addressing modes, as it eliminates the need for a memory access.

    - (b) Show the state diagram of 2-bit branch prediction scheme.

        A 2-bit branch prediction scheme uses two bits to predict the outcome of a branch instruction. The two bits are used to store a history of the branch's recent behavior. Based on this history, the scheme will predict that the branch will either be taken or not taken.

        The following is the state diagram for a 2-bit branch prediction scheme:

        | NT | NT | T | T |
        |:-:|:-:|:-:|:-:|
        | S  |  |  |  |
        |  | N  |  | T |
        |  |  | S  |  |
        |  |  |  |  |

    - (c) For a program P, the instruction number is N and the frequency of all loads and stores is 35%. Assume an instruction cache miss rate is 2% and a data cache miss rate is 5%. If the miss penalty are 80 and 100 cycles for instruction cache miss and data cache miss, respectively, please determine the total number of memory-stall cycles for program P.

        The total number of memory-stall cycles for program P can be calculated as follows:

        $Total memory-stall cycles = (Instruction cache miss rate) * (Miss penalty for instruction cache miss) + (Data cache miss rate) * (Miss penalty for data cache miss)$

        Plugging in the given values, we get:

        $Total memory-stall cycles = (0.02) * (80) + (0.05) * (100) = 16 + 50 = 66 memory-stall cycles$

        Therefore, the total number of memory-stall cycles for program P is 66.
