# 107

## Part I

1.Answer the following questions.

- (i) what is the value of $3^{2003} mod 99$?
  - $
    3^{2003} = 3^{2000}*3^3
    =(3^5)^{400}*3^3
    =(45mod99)^{400}*3^3
    $
  - $=45^{50}*3^3
     =45^{25}*3^3
     =45^{24}*45*3^3
     =45^{12}*45*3^3$
  - $
    =45*3^3
    =45*3*3^2 (45*3=36mod99)
    =36*3^2
    =36*3*3 (36*3=9mod99)
    =9*3
    =27mod99
    $

- (ii) A regular graph is a simple graph that vertex has the same degree. What is the number of vertices for a regular graph with degree 4 having 20 edges?
  - $2N_e = V_dN_v$
  - $2(20) = 4N_v$
  - $N_v = 10$
- (iii) Caculate the number if solutions of $x_1+x_2+x_3+x_4=10$ for(1) $x_i \in Z^+$ and (2) $x_i \in N = {0,1,2,3,...}$ respectively, where $i \in {1,2,3,4}$.
  - (1) 共加起來要=10
  - 然後有3個加號
  - 然後每一個都至少要有1 => $H^4_6 = C^9_6  = 84$
  - (2) $C^{13}_3$ = 286

- (iv) ${a_n}, n=1,2,3,...,$ is a sequence of integers satisfying $a_n = 2a_{n-1}+f(n), \text{ with } a_1 = 1$.Please give a general solution for $f(n) = 1$ and $f(n) = n$ respectively.
  - $f(n) = 1:$
    - $a_n = 2^n-1$
  - $f(n) = n:$
    - $a_n = 2a_{n-1} + n$
    - $\begin{array}{c}序號&值&跟上個差多少\\\hline a_1&1&?\\a_2&4&3\\a_3&11&7\\a_4&26&15\\a_5&57&31\\\end{array}$
    - $A(x) = a_1x+a_2x^2+a_3x^3 ...$
    - $A(x) = 1x + [2a_1x^2+2a_2x^3+2a_3x^4+...] + [nx +n^2x^2+n^3x^3+....]$
    - $A(x) = x + 2xA(x) + nx$
    - A(x) = $\frac{x(1+n)}{1-2x} = \frac{Ax+B}{1-2x}$
    - Ax+B = x(1+n)
    - A = 1+n, B = 0
    - A(x) = $\frac{(1+n)x}{1-2x}$
    - $a_n = (1+n)*2^{n-1}$

- (v) In a binary tree, that is , every node could have at most 2 child nodes. Whtat is the range of the number of nodes if the height of this tree is 4?
  - Ans = 5~31 ($ v=2^{h+1}-1$)

2.True of false.

- $\color{Yellow} T$ (a) The set {1,2,3,12,18,36} under the "divide" relation is not a Poset.
  - poset defination:
    - Reflexivity: Every element of the set is related to itself.
    - Antisymmetry: If two elements are related to each other, then they must be equal.
    - Transitivity: If element A is related to element B, and element B is related to element C, then element A must be related to element C.
  - this set:
    - Reflexivity: every element can divide itself
    - Antisymmetry: the same.
    - Transitivity: If element A divides element B, and element B divides element C, then element A must divide element C.
- $\color{Yellow} T$ (b) Adjacency matrices can be used to represented directed pseudographs.
  - example: $\begin{bmatrix}0,1,0,1\\0,0,1,0\\0,0,0,1\\0,0,0,0 \end{bmatrix}$
  - A -> B, B -> C , C -> D

- $\color{yellow} T$ (c) If both P and Q are propositions, then $P \to Q \equiv \neg P \bigcap Q$ where represents the logical equivalent relation.
- $\color{yellow} T$ (d) Let P and Q be propositions. The implication of "$P \to Q \equiv" is true if P is false and Q is true.
- $\color{red} F$ (e) If a relation is antisymmetric, then it must also be symmetric.
  - 等式的話能成立，但 2 > 1 不代表 1 > 2
- $\color{Yellow} T$ (f) Assume that the relation R is defined on {1,2,3,4} as R ={(1,1),(1,2),(2,1),(2,2)}.Then, R is a reflexive relation.
  - reflexive relation: ∀x ∈ X, (x, x) ∈ R
- $\color{red} F$ (g) The minimum number of numbers must be selected from {1,2,3,4,5,6} to gurantee that at least one pair of these numbers add up 7 is 5.
  - 4 times
- $\color{Yellow} T$ (h) Hypercube $Q_3$ is a plannar graph.[解答](https://www.chegg.com/homework-help/questions-and-answers/n-dimensional-hypercube-graph-denoted-qr-graph-2-vertices-vertex-binary-string-length-n-ve-q46718057)
- $\color{red} F$ (i) Let m be a positive integer and let a and b integers. Then,(a+b) mod m = (a mod m) + (b mod m)
  - a = qm + r
  - b = pm + s
  -
  - (a + b) mod m = (qm + r + pm + s) mod m
  - (a + b) mod m = (qm mod m + pm mod m + r + s) mod m
  - (a + b) mod m = (r + s) mod m
  -
  - r + s = km + t
  - (a + b) mod m = (km + t) mod m
  - (a + b) mod m = (k mod m)m + (t mod m)
  - (a + b) mod m = (t mod m)
  - but if a+b = m this can't be true!
- $\color{red} F$ (j) There is a vertex cut with n-1 vertices in  a complete graph $K_n$ where n > 2.
  - For example, consider the complete graph $K_4$ vertices.This graph has 4 vertices, so a vertex cut with n−1 vertices is any set of 3 vertices. For example, the set {A,B,C} is a vertex cut of $K_4$. If we remove these 3 vertices from $K_4$, the remaining graph has 1 connected component.

## Part II

1.Let A be an $m \times n$ matrix with rank r such that $A_x = \begin{vmatrix}1\\0\\0\end{vmatrix}$ has no solution and $A_x = \begin{vmatrix}1\\1\\0\end{vmatrix}$ has exactly one solution. For each of the following statements, indicate whether the statement is true or false, repectively. If the statement is true, briefly state why it is true. If the statement is false, given counterexample or explain why it is false.

- $\color{Red} F$ (a) n = r.
  - The rank of a matrix is the maximum number of linearly independent columns or rows in the matrix.
  - In this case, the rank of A is 1, since the only linearly independent column is the first column. However, the number of columns in A is n.
  - Therefore, n > r
  - Counterexample:
    - A = [[1, 0], [0, 1]]
    - The rank of A is 1, but the number of columns in A is 2. Therefore, n > r.
- $\color{Yellow} T$ (b) $det(A^TA) = det (AA^T)$
  - The transpose of a transpose is the original matrix.
  - Therefore, $A^TA = AA^T$.
  - Thus, $det(A^TA) = det(AA^T)$
- $\color{Red} F$ (c) $A^TA$ is invertible
  - A matrix is invertible if and only if its determinant is non-zero.
  - However, we know that $A_x = \begin{vmatrix}1\\0\\0\end{vmatrix}$ has no solution, which means that the determinant of A is zero.
  - Therefore, $A^TA$ is not invertible.
  - Counter example:
    - $A = \begin{bmatrix}1,0\\0,0\end{bmatrix}$
    - The determinant of A is zero, so $A^TA$ is not invertible.
- $\color{Red} F$ (d) $AA^T$ is positive definite
  - A matrix is positive definite if and only if all of its eigenvalues are positive.
  - However, since $AA^T$ is not invertible, at least one of its eigenvalues is zero.
  - Therefore, $AA^T$ cannot be positive definite.
- $\color{Red} F$ (e) $A^T y = c$ has at least one solution for every $c \in R^3$
  - We know that $A_x = \begin{vmatrix}1\\1\\0\end{vmatrix}$ has exactly one solution.
  - This means that the null space of A has dimension 1.
  - However, the null space of $A^T$ is the orthogonal complement of the column space of A.
  - Since the column space of A has dimension 1, the null space of $A^T$
  has dimension 2.
  - Therefore,$A^Ty=c$ cannot have a solution for every $c\in R$

2.Find the closet straight line $y = cx + d$ to the following 5 points:(x,y) = (-2,0),(-1,0),(0,1),(1,1),(2,1)

- in this case we find $\Sigma y = na + b \Sigma x $ and $\Sigma xy = a\Sigma x + b \Sigma x^2$
- $\begin{array}{c}x&y&xy&x^2 \\ \hline -2&0&0&4\\-1&0&0&1\\0&1&0&0\\1&1&1&1\\2&1&2&4\end{array}$
- $\Sigma x = 0$
- $\Sigma y = 3$
- $\Sigma xy = 3$
- $\Sigma x^2 = 10$
- $n = 5$
-
- $\begin{cases}3=5*a+b*0\\3=a*0+b*10\end{cases}$
- $(a,b) = (0.6,0.3)$
- $y = 0.6x +0.3$

3.Let $A = \begin{bmatrix}0,0,-2\\1,2,1\\1,0,3\\\end{bmatrix}$

- (a) Find the eighenvalues of A
  - $det(A - \lambda I) = 0$
  - $(0-\lambda)(2-\lambda)(3-\lambda) - (-2)*(2-\lambda)*1 = 0$
  - $(2-\lambda)(\lambda^2 - 3\lambda +2) = 0$
  - $(2-\lambda )(\lambda -2)(\lambda -1) = 0$
  - eighenvalues = $1,2,2$
- (b) Is A diagonalizable? Justify your answer.
  - $x_1 = \begin{bmatrix}1\\1\\0\end{bmatrix}x_2 = \begin{bmatrix}0\\1\\1\end{bmatrix}x_3 = \begin{bmatrix}1\\0\\-1\end{bmatrix}$
  - A 有3個特徵值, 但只有兩個線性獨立的值.所以A沒有diagonalizable.

4.Let $u_1 = (3,1,-1), u_2 = (1,-2,1)$, and the set $U = span {u1,u2}.$

- (a) Find the orthongonal complement of U.
  - $\begin{cases}
      3x_1+x_2-x_3 = 0\\
      x_1-2x_2+x_3 = 0
    \end{cases}$
  - $x_1:x_2:x_3 = 1: 4 : 7$
  - Answer: $\begin{bmatrix}1\\4\\7\end{bmatrix}$
- (b) Find the point in U that is closet to the vector (2,2,8)
  - $proj_U((2,2,8)) =
  \begin{bmatrix}
  \frac{14}{7},\frac{1}{7},\frac{-3}{7} \\
  \frac{1}{7},\frac{5}{7},\frac{2}{7}
  \end{bmatrix}
  \begin{bmatrix}2\\2\\8\end{bmatrix}
  =
  \begin{bmatrix}\frac{5}{7}\\\frac{18}{7}\end{bmatrix}$
  - Answer: $(\frac{5}{7},\frac{18}{7},0)$
