# 106 中興資訊概論

## Part I - a Multiple Choice

1. Using the binary notation 10000101 to represent the exponent item on Excess_127, what is the decimal representation of the answer?
    - (a) 6
    - (b) 7
    - (c) 8
    - (d) 9

    $2^7+2^2+1 = 16*8+4+1 = 133$

    $133 = x + 127 => x = 6$

2. The program can be divided into the same units in the operating system. The program needed to be loaded into the memory when the program is running. What kind of concept is used?
    - (a) Segmentation
    - (b) Paging
    - (c) Demand segmentation
    - (d) Demand Paging

    Ans: d
3. A sender and a receiver need to exchange the key before transmission data. What kind of data security mechanism is used?
    - (a) Firewall
    - (b) Instruction detection system
    - (c) Access control list
    - (d) Internet prtocol security (IPsec)

    Ans: d
4. In the data link layer, what is its basic transmission unit?
    - (a) Packet
    - (b) Frame
    - (c) Bit
    - (d) Flow

    Ans: a
5. In the data storage, floating-point represention can be divided into three parts. Which the item is not included?
    - (a) Mantissa
    - (b) Signed bit
    - (c) Biased exponent
    - (d) Most significant bit

    Ans: d
6. Which the function declaration is not a valid function declaration?
    - (a) char a(x,int y);
    - (b) void b(void);
    - (c) int c(int, float);
    - (d) float d (int x,int);

    Ans: a
7. CPI represent the average number of required click cycles for each instruction execution. THere are PCount instructions in one program and the operating frequency
    - (a) $CPI \times PCount / T$
    - (b) $(CPI + PCount) \times T$
    - (c) $CPI \times PCount \times T$
    - (d) $(CPI + PCount) / T$

    Ans: c

## Part I -b short answer questions

1. According to the following code segnebt of c language, please show the print results?

    ``` c
        int x = 0;
        if (x = 0 || x==0) printf("%d\n",x);
        printf("%d\n",x);
    ```

    注意!! 這邊的 x = (0 || x == 0)

    Ans:
    1
    1

2. According to the following code segment of C language, please show the print results?

    ``` c
        #include <stdio.h>
        #include <stdlib.h>
        int main( ) {
            int i, * ptr;
            int array[4][3] = {
                {1,2,3},
                {4,5,6},
                {7,8,9},
                {10,11,12}
            };
            ptr = (int *)array;
            printf("%d\n",array[3][2]);
            printf("%d\n %d\n",(*(array+1))[1],*((array+1)[1]));
            system("pause");
            return 0;
        }
    ```

    Ans:

    12
    5
     7
3. Show the result of the following floating-point operations using IEEE_127 as 33.1875-0.4375.

    33.1875 = 0-1000 0100-0000 1001 1000 0000 0000 000

    0.3475  = 0-0111 1101-1100 0000 0000 0000 0000 000

    $\begin{array}{cr}
    ~&1.0100011001 \times 2^5\\
    -&0.000111 \times 2^5\\
    \hline
    ~&1.0010101001 \times 2^5
    \end{array}$

    = 32.75

4. What is the status of a process in each of the following situations?
    - a.  The process is using the CPU.
    - b. The process has finished printing and needs the attention of the CPU again.
    - c.  The process is reading data from the keyboard.

    Ans: Running ready waiting

## Part II Operating Systems

1. Please fill the following blanks in English.
    - (a) If a process does not have the number of frames it needs to support pages in active use, it will quickly page-fault, and again, and again. This process is __?__ since it is spending more time paging than executing.

        Ans: thrashing
    - (b) The page table is often kept in memory. As a result, two memory accesses are needed to access a byte. The standard solution to this problem is to use a special hardware cache, called a __?__ (please give the full name).

        Ans: Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB)
    - (c) When you major the assembly language, you need the __?__ for translating the assembly language file to an object file or machine language format. Furthermore, you need the __?__ that takes one or more object files and combines them into a single executable file.

        Ans: assembler
2. In certain situations, a single application may be required to perform several similar tasks. for example, a web server accepts client requests for web pages, images, sound and so forth. A busy web server may have several clients concurrently accessing it. If the web server ran as a traditional single-threaded process, it would be able to service only one client at a time, and a client might have to wait a very long time for its request to be serviced.One solution is to have the server run as a single process that accepts requests. When the server receives a request, it creates a separate process to service that request. Process creation is time consuming and resource intensive, however. If the new process will perform the same tasks as the existing process, why incur all that overhead. It is generally more efficient to use one process that contains multiple threads. If the web-server process is multithreaded, the server will create a separate thread that listens for client requests. When a request is made, rather than creating another process, the server creates a new thread to service the request and resume listening for additional requests.
    - (a) From above descriptions, if new task is not the same as the existing tasks, we must use processes, rather than threads. Why?

        Ans:

        1. Each process has its own address space, allowing it to run independently without interfering with the memory of other processes.
        2. Processes are more heavyweight than threads and have their own memory space, file descriptors, and other resources.
    - (b) In Linux, which system call is used to create a new process?

        Ans: fork()
    - (c) However, many applications require the child process to execute code that is different from that of the parent. Thus, Linux provides another system call for the child process to overlay its process image with a new image. In other words, this system call enables the child process to load a new binary file into memory. What is this system call?

        Ans: execve()
    - (d). From above descriptions, compared with threads, process creation is time consuming and resource intensive. Why?

        Ans:
        1. Address Space: Each process has its own address space, which requires a duplication of the parent process's memory. This involves copying the entire address space, including code, data, and stack segments.
        2. Resource Allocation: Processes have their own resources, such as file descriptors, signal handlers, and more. Creating a new process involves duplicating these resources.
        3. Time: Creating a new process involves setting up a new program counter, stack pointer, and other CPU registers. This context-switching overhead can be relatively high.
        4. Inter-Process Communication (IPC): Processes generally have more overhead for communication compared to threads. Inter-process communication often involves more complex mechanisms such as message passing or shared memory, whereas threads within the same process can communicate more directly through shared data.
3. Theoretically, some programs could access several new pages of memory with each instruction execution (for example, one page for the instruction and many for the data), possibly causing multiple page fauits per instruction. This situation would result in unacceptable system performance. Fortunately, analysis of running processes shows that this behavior is exceedingly unlikely. Program tend to have locality of references, which results in reasonable performance from demand paging.
    - (a) What is the locality of reference?

        Ans: the tendency of a processor to access the same set of memory locations
    - (b) Why the demand paging would result in reasonable performance if program tend to have locality of reference?
        1. Reduced Initial Loading Time: 不需要一開始就把所有的資料一開始就存取，只需要把page address存取，到使用時再去demand就好了
        2. Efficient Use of Memory:更快速的取得該page
        3. Page Replacement: 因為是用page，因次可以被作業系統中的algorithm憶起計算那些page會需要被替換掉，做整體的系統優化。
